README.md, before:

> Open this page at [https://kitronikltd.github.io/pxt-kitronik-move-motor/](https://kitronikltd.github.io/pxt-kitronik-move-motor/)

## Use this extension

This repository can be added as an **extension** in MakeCode.

* open [https://makecode.microbit.org/](https://makecode.microbit.org/)
* click on **New Project**
* click on **Extensions** under the gearwheel menu
* search for **https://github.com/kitronikltd/pxt-kitronik-move-motor** and import

## Edit this extension ![Build status badge](https://github.com/kitronikltd/pxt-kitronik-move-motor/workflows/MakeCode/badge.svg)

To edit this repository in MakeCode.

* open [https://makecode.microbit.org/](https://makecode.microbit.org/)
* click on **Import** then click on **Import URL**
* paste **https://github.com/kitronikltd/pxt-kitronik-move-motor** and click import

## Blocks preview

This image shows the blocks code from the last commit in master.
This image may take a few minutes to refresh.

![A rendered view of the blocks](https://github.com/kitronikltd/pxt-kitronik-move-motor/raw/master/.github/makecode/blocks.png)

#### Metadata (used for search, rendering)

* for PXT/microbit
<script src="https://makecode.com/gh-pages-embed.js"></script><script>makeCodeRender("{{ site.makecode.home_url }}", "{{ site.github.owner_name }}/{{ site.github.repository_name }}");</script>

Commit message:

Fairly big restructure to blocks to make teaching simpler. :w

README.md, after:

# Kitronik blocks for micro:bit

# pxt-kitronik-move-motor

Blocks that support [Kitronik accessories for the micro:bit](https://www.kitronik.co.uk/microbit.html)
This package is for the [Kitronik :MOVE Motor](https://www.kitronik.co.uk/5683)



> Open this page at [https://kitronikltd.github.io/pxt-kitronik-move-motor/](https://kitronikltd.github.io/pxt-kitronik-move-motor/)

## Use this extension

This repository can be added as an **extension** in MakeCode.

* open [https://makecode.microbit.org/](https://makecode.microbit.org/)
* click on **New Project**
* click on **Extensions** under the gearwheel menu
* search for **https://github.com/kitronikltd/pxt-kitronik-move-motor** and import

## Edit this extension ![Build status badge](https://github.com/kitronikltd/pxt-kitronik-move-motor/workflows/MakeCode/badge.svg)

To edit this repository in MakeCode.

* open [https://makecode.microbit.org/](https://makecode.microbit.org/)
* click on **Import** then click on **Import URL**
* paste **https://github.com/kitronikltd/pxt-kitronik-move-motor** and click import

## Blocks preview

This image shows the blocks code from the last commit in master.
This image may take a few minutes to refresh.

![A rendered view of the blocks](https://github.com/kitronikltd/pxt-kitronik-move-motor/raw/master/.github/makecode/blocks.png)

#### Metadata (used for search, rendering)

* for PXT/microbit
<script src="https://makecode.com/gh-pages-embed.js"></script><script>makeCodeRender("{{ site.makecode.home_url }}", "{{ site.github.owner_name }}/{{ site.github.repository_name }}");</script>
